Add finetuning a workload (#7029)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/user-guide/finetine-workloads.md

---
layout: default
title: Finetuning custom workloads
nav_order: 12
parent: User guide
---

> 

Reviewer: Side note: In the original create custom workloads page:
- We can remove the "separate test procedures and operations" as that is deprecated now. It automatically does that. We should also reform all the examples. 
- include a note somewhere for creating custom workloads that users should run this on a test cluster and not the original reference cluster. If they do choose to run it on the original cluster, they should rename the index names in workload.json so that the original index in the original cluster is not overriden.

> # Finetuning custom workload

Author: ```suggestion
# Finetuning custom workloads
```

> While custom workloads can help make benchmarks more specific to your applications needs, they sometimes require additional work in order to refine your benchmarks.

Author: ```suggestion
While custom workloads can help make benchmarks more specific to your application's needs, they sometimes require additional work to make sure they closely resemble a production cluster
```

> While custom workloads can help make benchmarks more specific to your application's needs, they sometimes require additional work to make sure they closely resemble a production cluster.

Author: adjustment.
```suggestion
While custom workloads can help make benchmarks more specific to your application's needs, they sometimes require additional adjustments to make sure they closely resemble a production cluster.
```

> You can fine-tune your custom workloads to more closely match your benchmarking needs by using the 'create-workload' feature. `create-workload` can extract documents from all indexes or specific indexes selected by the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can fine-tune your custom workloads to more closely match your benchmarking needs by using the `create-workload` feature. `create-workload` can extract documents from all indexes or specific indexes selected by the user.
```

> OpenSearch Benchmark’s `create-workload` feature can extract documents from all indexes or specific indexes selected by the user. The `create-workload` feature understands that all workloads have unique characteristics which allows you to finetune workload runs to your specific needs.

Author: ```suggestion
You can finetune your custom workloads to more closely match your benchmarking needs by using the 'create-workload' feature. `create-workload` can extract documents from all indexes or specific indexes selected by the user. The `create-workload` feature understands that all workloads have unique characteristics which allows you to finetune workload runs to your specific needs.
```

> OpenSearch Benchmark’s `create-workload` can extract documents from all indexes or specific indexes selected by the user. This helps for finetuning your custom workload because The `create-workload` feature understand that all workloads have unique characteristics. This allows users to finetune workload runs to their specific need.

Author: ```suggestion
OpenSearch Benchmark’s `create-workload` feature can extract documents from all indexes or specific indexes selected by the user. The `create-workload` feature understands that all workloads have unique characteristics which allows you to finetune workload runs to your specific need.
```

## Characteristics to consider 

When beginning to use `create-workload` to finetune a custom workload, consider the following characteristics of the workload:

> 1. **Queries** - Consider what kinds of documents the queries are targeting, what fields the queries call, and which indexes they’re targeting.

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Queries** - Consider what kinds of documents and indexes the queries are targeting and what fields the queries call.
```

2. **Shard Size** - Match the shard size of the workload with the shard size in your cluster, or else the benchmark will not simulate the behavior of your application. Lucene operates on shard sizes and does not have a concept of indexes. Calculate the shard size for any index that you want in the custom workload.

> 3. **Shard count** - Size the shard count according to how you want to size the workload and improve query performance. As each person’s use case is different, you can determine the shard count in two ways:

Author: ```suggestion
3. **Shard count** - Size the shard count according to how you want to size the workload and improve query performance. As each  use case is different, you can determine the shard count in two ways:
```

>     1. Divide the ideal index size with the shard size found in step 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Divide the ideal index size by the shard size found in step 2.
```

>     2. Multiply the ideal number of shards with the shard size found in step 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. Multiply the ideal number of shards by the shard size found in step 2.
```

> 4. **Decide how many docs to extract (Recommended)** - Now that the shard size is set and the number of shards needed in the final index decided, you can determine how many docs you want to extract. In some cases, users aren’t interested in retrieving the entire document corpus from an index since the corpus might be too big. Instead, the might want to generate a smaller corpus. However, the corpus of the index generated should be *representative* of the index in the production workload. In other words, it should contain docs from across the index and not just from a certain area, for example, the first half of the index or the last third of the index. To decide how many docs to extracts:

Author: ```suggestion
4. **Decide how many docs to extract (Recommended)** - Now that the shard size is set and the number of shards needed in the final index decided, you can determine how many docs you want to extract. In some cases, users aren’t interested in retrieving the entire document corpus from an index since the corpus might be too big. Instead, you might want to generate a smaller corpus. However, the corpus of the index generated should be *representative* of the index in the production workload. In other words, it should contain documents from across the index and not just from a certain area, for example, the first half of the index or the last third of the index. To decide how many docs to extract:
```

> 4. **Decide how many docs to extract (Recommended)** - Now that the shard size is set and the number of shards needed in the final index decided, you can determine how many docs you want to extract. In some cases, users aren’t interested in retrieving the entire document corpus from an index since the corpus might be too big. Instead, you might want to generate a smaller corpus. However, the corpus of the index generated should be *representative* of the index in the production workload. In other words, it should contain documents from across the index and not only from a certain area, for example, the first half of the index or the last third of the index. To decide how many docs to extract:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. **Decide how many documents to extract (Recommended)** -- Now that the shard size is set and the number of shards needed in the final index decided, you can determine how many documents you want to extract. In some cases, users aren’t interested in retrieving the entire document corpus from an index because the corpus might be too big. Instead, you might want to generate a smaller corpus. However, the corpus of the generated index should be *representative* of the index in the production workload. In other words, it should contain documents from across the index and not only from a certain area, for example, the first half of the index or the last third of the index. To decide how many documents to extract:
```

>     1. Multiply the number of shards with the shard size. Since every document is created unequally, add a buffer to the number, an arbitrary amount of additional documents. The buffer provides cover in situations when the number of docs extracted might come out under the expected amount, which does not help retain your shard size. The goal is for the shard size to be under the number of documents extracted. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Multiply the number of shards by the shard size. Because every document is created unequally, add a buffer to the number---an arbitrary number of additional documents. The buffer provides assistance when the number of documents extracted is lower than the expected number, which will not help to retain your shard size. The shard size should be lower than the number of documents extracted. 
```

>     2. Take the store size and divide it by the product of the previous step. The value of the multiple is used to set the number of sample docs from the reference index. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. Divide the store size by the product of the previous step. The value of the multiple is used to set the number of sample documents from the reference index. 
```

> 5. **Target Cluster Configuration**-  Consider the configuration and characteristics the target cluster and factor those into how you generate the workload.

Author: ```suggestion
5. **Target Cluster Configuration**-  Consider the configuration and characteristics of the target cluster and factor those into how you generate the workload.
```

> 5. **Target Cluster Configuration**-  Consider the configuration and characteristics of the target cluster and factor those into how you generate the workload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. **Target cluster configuration** -- Factor the configuration and characteristics of the target cluster into how you generate the workload.
```

## Example

> The following example contains an index named `stocks`. The `stocks` index includes documents with stats on all stocks being traded in the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Using OpenSearch Dashboards gives information about the `stocks` index, as shown in the following code example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example contains an index named `stocks`. The `stocks` index includes documents containing statistics on all stocks being traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). OpenSearch Dashboards provides information about the `stocks` index, as shown in the following code example:
```

```
health status index  uuid              pri rep docs.count docs.deleted store.size pri.store.size
green  open   stocks asjdkfjacklajldf   12   1  997818020    232823733    720gb    360gb
```

> Using the information, you can start tweaking the workload to your specifications

Author: ```suggestion
Using the information, you can start tweaking the workload to your specifications, as shown by the following steps:
```

> 1. **Fetch queries that are associated with this index:**  Obtain the queries needed to make requests to the stocks index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Fetch queries associated with this index** -- Obtain the queries needed to make requests to the `stocks` index.
```

> 2. **Find shard size for index:** To get the shard size of the index, divide the store size with the number of shards in the index. From this, we get `720 / (12 + (12 * 1)) = 30`. In other words, 30GB is the shard size. You can  verify this by dividing the primary store size value by the primary shards and you will get the same value

Author: ```suggestion
2. **Find shard size for index:** To get the shard size of the index, divide the store size with the number of shards in the index. From this, we get `720 / (12 + (12 * 1)) = 30`. In other words, 30 GB is the shard size. You can verify this by dividing the primary store size value by the primary shards and you will get the same value
```

> 2. **Find shard size for index:** To get the shard size of the index, divide the store size with the number of shards in the index. From this, we get `720 / (12 + (12 * 1)) = 30`. In other words, 30 GB is the shard size. You can verify this by dividing the primary store size value by the primary shards and you will get the same value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Find the shard size for the index** -- To get the shard size of the index, divide the store size by the number of shards in the index: `720 / (12 + (12 * 1)) = 30`. 30 GB is the shard size. You can verify this by dividing the primary store size value by the number of primary shards.
```

> 3. **Decide how many shards you want for your index:** Determine the number of shards needed in the index to understand your application. For example, if you want your index to hold 300GB of documents, but 300GB is too much for the benchmark, determine a number that makes a shard amount that makes sense. For example, 300GB of documents divided by the 30GB shard size determined in the last step, or `300 / 30 = 10`, gives a shard of 10. These 10 shards can either be 10 primary shards and 0 replicas, 5 primary shards and 1 replica, or 2 primary shards and 4 replicas. The shard configuration depends on your clusters needs index needs.

Author: ```suggestion
3. **Decide how many shards you want for your index:** Determine the number of shards needed in the index to represent your application under production load. For example, if you want your index to hold 300 GB of documents, but 300 GB is too much for the benchmark, determine a number that makes a shard amount that makes sense. For example, 300 GB of documents divided by the 30 GB shard size determined in the last step, or `300 / 30 = 10`, gives 10 shards. These 10 shards can either be 10 primary shards and 0 replicas, 5 primary shards and 1 replica, or 2 primary shards and 4 replicas. The shard configuration depends on your clusters index needs.
```

> 3. **Decide how many shards you want for your index:** Determine the number of shards needed in the index to represent your application under production load. For example, if you want your index to hold 300 GB of documents, but 300 GB is too much for the benchmark, determine a number that makes a shard amount that makes sense. For example, 300 GB of documents divided by the 30 GB shard size determined in the last step, or `300 / 30 = 10`, gives 10 shards. These 10 shards can either be 10 primary shards and 0 replicas, 5 primary shards and 1 replica, or 2 primary shards and 4 replicas. The shard configuration depends on your clusters index needs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Determine the number of index shards** -- Determine the number of shards needed in the index to represent your application under a production load. For example, if you want your index to hold 300 GB of documents, but 300 GB is too much for the benchmark, determine a number that makes sense. For example, 300 GB of documents divided by the 30 GB shard size determined in the last step, or `300 / 30 = 10`, produces 10 shards. These 10 shards can either be 10 primary shards and 0 replicas, 5 primary shards and 1 replica, or 2 primary shards and 4 replicas. The shard configuration depends on your cluster's index needs.
```

> 4. **Decide how many documents to extract** -- To retain 30 GB and have 10 shards, you need to extract at least 300 GB of documents. To determine the number of documents to extract, divide the store size value by the index size value, in this example, `720 / 300 = 2.4`. Because we want to make sure we reach a value of 30 GB per shard, it is best to round down and choose 2 as the extraction multiple, which means that OpenSearch Benchmark will extract every other document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. **Decide how many documents to extract** -- To retain 30 GB and have 10 shards, you need to extract at least 300 GB of documents. To determine the number of documents to extract, divide the store size value by the index size value, in this example, `720 / 300 = 2.4`. Because you want to make sure you reach a value of 30 GB per shard, it is best to round down and choose 2 as the extraction multiple, which means that OpenSearch Benchmark will extract every other document.
```

> 4. **Decide how many docs you want to extract:** To retain 30gb and to have 10 shards, you need to extract at least 300GB worth of documents. To get how many docs this would approximately equal, take the store size value and divide it by the index size value you decide, for this example `720 / 300 = 2.4`. Since we want to make sure we reach a value of 30GB per shard, its best to round down and chose 2 as the extraction multiple, which means OpenSearch Benchmark extracts every other document. From a query perspective, this might be better than grabbing the first half of the corpus, since documents from the entire index are extracted.

Author: ```suggestion
4. **Decide how many docs you want to extract:** To retain 30 GB and have 10 shards, you need to extract at least 300 GB worth of documents. To get the number of documents to extract, take the store size value and divide it by the index size value you decide, in this example`720 / 300 = 2.4`. Since we want to make sure we reach a value of 30 GB per shard, its best to round down and chose 2 as the extraction multiple, which means OpenSearch Benchmark extracts every other document. From a query perspective, this might be better than grabbing the first half of the corpus, since documents from the entire index are extracted.
```

> 4. **Decide how many docs you want to extract:** To retain 30 GB and have 10 shards, you need to extract at least 300 GB worth of documents. To get the number of documents to extract, take the store size value and divide it by the index size value you decide, in this example`720 / 300 = 2.4`. Since we want to make sure we reach a value of 30 GB per shard, its best to round down and chose 2 as the extraction multiple, which means OpenSearch Benchmark extracts every other document. From a query perspective, this might be better than grabbing the first half of the corpus, since documents from the entire index are extracted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. **Decide how many documents to extract** -- To retain 30 GB and have 10 shards, you need to extract at least 300 GB of documents. To determine the number of documents to extract, divide the store size value by the index size value, in this example, `720 / 300 = 2.4`. Because we want to make sure we reach a value of 30 GB per shard, it is best to round down and choose 2 as the extraction multiple, which means that OpenSearch Benchmark will extract every other document.
```

> 5. **Think about the target cluster configuration:** Assess the cluster you're planning on working on. Consider the use case, the size of the cluster, and the number of nodes. While finetuning the workload, this could be an iterative process where small adjusts to the cluster are made according to the results of the workload runs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. **Think about the target cluster configuration** -- Assess the cluster you're planning to work on. Consider the use case, the size of the cluster, and the number of nodes. While fine-tuning the workload, this could be an iterative process where small adjustments to the cluster are made according to the results of the workload runs.
```

> 5. **Think about the target cluster configuration:** Assess the cluster you're planning on working on. Consider the use case, the size of the cluster, and the number of nodes. While finetuning the workload, this could be an iterative process where small adjusts to the cluster are made according to the results of the workload runs.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure that this para provides any valuable information to the reader.

Author: I think the sentence would be useful if we reiterate the need to a benchmark to resemble a production cluster. I'll make a small adjustment.

```suggestion
5. **Think about the target cluster configuration** -- Assess the cluster you're planning on working on to make sure it closely resembles the production cluster you are benchmarking. Consider the use case, the size of the cluster, and the number of nodes. While fine-tuning the workload, this could be an iterative process where small adjustments are made to the cluster are made according to the results of the workload runs.
```

## Replicating metrics

> In many cases, a workload will never be able to replicate the exact metrics of a production cluster. However, you can aim to get close as possible to your ideal cluster metrics, such as the following production metrics:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In many cases, a workload will not be able to replicate the exact metrics of a production cluster. However, you can aim to get as close as possible to your ideal cluster metrics, such as the following production metrics:
```

> In many cases, a workload will never be able to replicate the exact metrics of a production cluster. However, you can aim to get close as possible to your ideal cluster metrics, such as the following production metrics:

Reviewer 2: Same here. It's not clear to me what information we're trying to convey to the reader. That these metrics exist?

Author: Let me know if the following edit to your suggestion helps.

Reviewer 2: Works for me.

> * CPU Utilization

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* CPU utilization
```

> * Search Request Rates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Search request rates
```

> * Indexing Rates (if the issue is with indexing)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Indexing rates (if the issue is with indexing)
```

> * Indexing Rates (if the issue is with indexing)

Reviewer 2: To what issue are we referring?

Author: Not sure. It was included in the original draft. I'll remove for now.
